---
layout: post
title:  "Efficient Property Price Range Search with Binary Search Tree"
categories: [ BST ]
image: assets/images/9.jpg
---
Zillow aims to enhance its platform by allowing users to efficiently search for properties within specific price ranges. To achieve this, implementing a Binary Search Tree (BST) can optimize the search process, ensuring users receive quick and accurate results. A BST is an ideal data structure for this purpose as it allows for efficient searching, insertion, and deletion operations, maintaining order within the tree and providing a foundation for quick range queries.

## Implementation 

   - Create a BST where each node represents a property, with the property price as the key. Each node will store property details such as location, size, and other relevant attributes.

   - Implement a function to insert property data into the BST based on the price. This function will ensure that the tree remains balanced to maintain efficient search operations.

   - Develop a function that searches the BST for properties within a specified price range. The function will traverse the tree, efficiently identifying and collecting properties that fall within the desired range.

   - Implement balancing techniques (such as AVL rotations) to ensure the BST remains balanced, optimizing search performance and preventing skewed trees that could degrade efficiency.

   - Create functions to update property prices and other details. Ensure that any changes to the property data trigger rebalancing operations if necessary to maintain the tree’s efficiency.

#### Time Complexity
- **Average Case:** `O(log N)` (Insert,search,delete)
- **Worst Case:** `O(N)` 

#### Space Complexity : `O(N)`


## Here is the full code implementation [Code](https://gist.github.com/harish-r/a7df7ce576dda35c9660)

